♪♪
Reporter: Intensive care units
across the country
are reaching capacity,
and hospital morgues are
filling at an alarming rate.
Medical and government
officials are joining forces
to try to quell what is
quickly becoming an epidemic.
We are hearing report
after report
of grisly attacks in hospitals
by patients who are no longer
in control of their faculties.
We are seeing sick people
no longer seeking medical care
because of violence
erupting from patients
no longer in their right minds.
♪♪
Man: No!
No!
No! Oh, God!
♪♪
No! No!
[Whimpering]
Come on!
Let's go!
[Grunts]
Don't be afraid,
George.
Don't be afraid.
Remember, the end
is the beginning.
You're about to be given
a new life.
You actually believe all
the bullshit you spew, Maddox?
Get it all out.
You'll be walking this walk
soon enough.
[Door opens]
[Door closes]
♪♪
[Chuckles]
Oh.
[Spoon clatters]
Ah.
[Alarm blaring, doors clanging]
[Indistinct shouting]
[Growling]
[Shouting continues]
[Screaming in distance]
Man: Guards! Guards!
Open the door!
Man #2:
Hey! Stop!
[Alarm continues]
[Walkers growling]
[Man groans in distance]
Aah!
Aah! Aah!
[Screaming,
shouting in distance]
♪♪
[Growling]
[Whimpers]
♪♪
[Grunts]
[Growling stops]
[Alarm continues]
♪♪
I was right. I was right.
I just needed to be patient.
[Man groaning]
It's not bullshit, Hayes.
It's revelation.
[Groans]
Oh, God.
[Screaming]
♪♪
Teddy:
You have been here before.
You have lived this moment
before.
We don't want to believe that,
do we?
We don't want to accept
the circularity.
But believe me when I tell you,
my friends, we are in a loop.
You have been here before.
You have lived this moment
before.
We don't want to believe that,
do we?
You have been here before.
You have lived this moment
before.
[Echoing] ...before.
We are in a loop.
...in a loop.
[Door opens]
This world wears its ugliness
on its sleeve.
It has told us who it is.
Are you ready
to accept his word?
Accept the pattern.
Or break it.
Wecan break it.
[Scoffs] We must break it,
or we're doomed to repeat it.
You have been here before.
You have lived this moment
before.
[Door opens]
We don't want to believe that,
do we?
This world wears its ugliness
on its sleeve.
It has told us who it is.
And it leaves us with a choice.[Sighs]
Accept the pattern.
Or break it.Or break it.
Wecan break it.
We must break it,
or we're doomed to repeat it.
[Birds chirping]
[Door opens]
[Door creaks]
You stopped sending
your errand boy.
You stopped
eating your beans.
[Door creaks]
[Chuckles]
This wasn't my preferred
method of induction for you,
you know.
Locking me up
like a prisoner?
I was locked up
myself once.
Oh, I thought it was
the end of the road for me.
[Chuckles] Turns out,
it was just the opposite.
I'd hoped that, uh,
it would yield
the same revelation for you.
Sorry to disappoint.
Oh, but I-I do bring
good news.
We've found our new home.
The others are packing up
to head there as we speak.
Oh, this place
has served its purpose,
but we needed, eh,
something safer, sturdier,
somewhere we could, uh,
truly begin again.
You know?
Now, before we take our first
steps together, Alicia,
I need some assurances
from you
that you are, um...
[Chuckles]
I don't know,
dedicated,
committed to
what we're doing here.
Well, you're not
gonna get them.
What am I gonna get
from you?
I don't know.
Something you
probably won't like.
[Chuckles][Gun cocks]
Riley: We're wasting our time
with her.
Riley.She's never gonna
see the truth.
Riley.Let's end this
right here.
Let's leave her behind.
No. No.
She's coming with me.
Surprising what you pick up
on death row, huh?
[Groans]
♪♪
Where are you taking her?
[Gas can clatters]
I have a personal matter
to attend to.
I want her
to accompany me.
Why her?
I would like to get to know her
a bit better, Riley.
I have a feeling
she is going to be critical
for our new beginning.
Don't question me
about her again.
[Vehicle approaches]
[Brakes squeal]
[Chuckles]
Who are they?
New recruits
we picked up on our scouts.
Welcome, welcome.
You all are gonna see
our new home, huh?
Dakota?
Alicia?
Teddy:
She a friend of yours?
It's not the word
I'd use.
She killed
someone I knew.
Why?
Something that
had to be done.
Have you
come to us alone?
No family?
She actually
tried to kill her mother.
Did you succeed?
I didn't.
Someone else did.
[Chuckles]
A woman after my own heart.
You hop in.
You're coming with us.
I'm not going anywhere
with her.
I'm afraid you're not at liberty
to make that call.
If you're smart,
you wouldn't bring her.
You shouldn't go
with either of them.
Yeah, I'll be fine.
Alright,
alright, alright.
Now, if I don't show up
by tomorrow,
you know what to do.
Now, come on.
Let's go see what we got, huh?
Listen, Alicia, this isn't
what it looks like.
It wasn't the last time,
either.
This is different.
I went looking for you
in the city.
I followed them
on all their scouting missions
as best as I could,
hoping that you'd be
on one of them, but you weren't,
so I got in with them,
told them I wanted to join.
I came here
to help you.
I don't want
your help.
I don't need
I left after I heard
what happened underground.
Alicia,
it's getting really bad.
Morgan tried to bring
everyone together
to try and figure out
how to beat these people,
but I think
it's getting worse.
I'm not listening
to you.
I want to make up
for what I did.
I need to, Alicia.
Whether you believe me
or not.
I heard them talking about
the place they're going,
that it's stocked with
so many supplies
that they wouldn't even have to
step outside for years.
We can kill him.
He is scary as hell,
but he's old.
We could do it.
You know, he's stupid
for not believing who we are.
There is no we here.
There never will be.
Just stay
out of my way.
You want to know
what he's up to,
where it is
that he's going,
why he's got those keys
on his necklace.
So,
what are you gonna do?
[Keys jingling]
Teddy:
Shall we?
[Chuckles]
Alright.
[Truck door squeaks]
[Scoffs]
This isn't gonna work.
What isn't?
Bringing me out here
is not gonna break me.
I don't understand.Oh, cut the shit.
I know you listened to
all the recordings Riley made.
Somebody told you
about the stadium?
Who was it?
Luciana?
What, the stadium?The place I used to live.
Oh,
with your mother.
The place where you told me
she -- she grew the crops?
Oh, you expect me to believe
this is just all a coincidence?
There are no coincidences.
The universe
sends us signs,
and it's up to us
to interpret them.
Dakota: Like what?
Well, I don't think it's
an accident you're here, Sioux.
Sioux?
Sioux Falls.
It's my favorite city
in the Dakotas.
But your arrival,
or the timing of it, I--
it's for a reason.
And what's that?
Well, these things tend
to reveal themselves.
[Scraping]
Yeah.
Can you
give me a hand?
Yeah. Oh.
Oh. Oh.
[Lid creaks]
Hello, Mother.
Mother?
How did she die?
She was taken
way before her time.
No, but that doesn't mean
that she can't be
part of
our new beginnings.
♪♪
When we're finished,
all this...
will be gone.
♪♪
This is why you brought us
out here?
To dig up
your mother's corpse?
Look, all three of us
have lost mothers,
and I wanted both of you
to help me accompany mine
back to our new home.
Dakota: Why?
God, I wanted to break these
patterns for such a long time.
I told my mother
I was gonna do it
and wound up in a prison cell
condemned to death.
I thought I'd just...
failed.
Every night, in my --
in my cell,
I-I looked at this.
Disgusted with myself
for what I'd done.
I thought
I got it wrong.
It was all
for nothing.
But then I realized
I wasn't wrong.
I just needed
to be patient.
And then...
it happened.
What happened?
The world changed,
and with it...
[Chuckles]
my freedom,
and a chance
to reshape the world
into everything
I believed it could be,
where I could preserve
everything I...loved
and destroy
everything I didn't.
You think you can do all that
with a pair of keys?
[Chuckles]
What do they unlock?
Oh.
Our future.
You're really starting
to sound like my mom.
[Tires screech]
W-- Mother!
Oh!
Oh, God!
Oh, my God!
Mother.
Oh.
It'll be alright.
Would you please come here
and help me get her
back onto the truck?
Please.
Right. Okay. Alright.
There we go.
[Smooches]
Teddy.It's okay. What?
[Walkers growling]
Oh.
Don't.
You'll draw more.
♪♪
Take that.
A-ha.
♪♪
[Gunshot]
[Body thuds, gun cocks]
♪♪
Cole?
Alicia?
Is that you?
I was gonna ask you
the same question.
♪♪
Who the hell is that?
An old friend.
What kind of old friend?
Her mom...
is the only reason
I ain't one of these skinbags.
Your mother,
huh?
How's that for a sign?
♪♪
[Birds chirping]
Riley, are you there?
We are in need of some
roadside assistance.
Riley, do you copy?
Uh...
I'm gonna see if
I fare any better...
up the road a bit.
Come on.
I can't believe
it's you.
[Chuckles]
You been on the --
the road?
Yeah.
Long time,
Alicia.
We spent weeks
looking for you all.
When we didn't find you,
well, we just thought
you must've died
in the fire, too.
Wait, "we"?
Doug. Viv.
Bunch of us from the stadium are
still around thanks to your mom,
what she did.
[Chuckles]
How's your brother?
I'm sorry.
Luciana,
she's still alive.
Victor, too.
Where are they?
Luci lives at
the same place I do.
Victor...
went his own way.
He always does.
What you doing out this way,
Alicia?
You must've come
from far.
All this gas
you're carrying.
You don't see
much of that these days.
Teddy's been stocking up
on some supplies for a while.
Who is he?
What's his deal?
I'm still trying to
figure it out.
Teddy:
No signal.
I don't suppose you know
where we could, uh,
find a new car,
do you?
There's an old
auto parts shop nearby.
But I wouldn't go there
on your own.
It's not safe
around here.
Seen these before.
How they set them
for people passing through.
"They"?
Unsavory types.
Take whatever they want.
I was out on a food run,
I ran into a bunch of them.
Been trying to get back
to my people ever since.
A lot of the dead you see
around here, they killed them,
left them
looking like Swiss cheese.
After they took
what they wanted.
I'll get you
where you need to go.
I know
which roads to take.
You don't need
to do that.I believe he does.
Lead the way.
I am gonna need, uh,
your gun, though.
I'm not handing anything
to you.
Alright.
Hand it to her,
then.
[Chuckles]
I'm beginning to trust you.
I just want to make sure
we can trust him.
♪♪
It's alright.
[Growling]
[Grunts]
How long
were you locked up?
Mm,
almost 30 years.
What did you do
to get in there?
Mm, I killed some people
who got in my way,
people who didn't see the world
the way I did.
My mom locked me up.
Did everything she could
to get me away from people.
[Chuckles]
Did you know
any of them?
A few.
Did you feel bad
killing them?
Do I detect some guilt
over your own
acts of malice, Sioux?
I only
killed people I had to.
So, you knew them,
then?
One of them
more than the others.
You know, for a bit,
he was kinda
starting to become
like family.
Did you feel bad
about what you did to him?
No.
Didn't really give me
much of a choice.
But when
I tell people that,
they look at me
like they're scared.
But from what I can tell,
that's just how things are now.
Oh, but people --
yeah, you don't frighten people.
I mean, they're frightened
by what you're saying
'cause they know
it's the truth.
And you're right.
It is the way of things now.
[Chuckles]
Cole:
This is it.
You got my gun.
We could take him out.No, I can't.
Not until I know
what he's doing.
But if he's gone,
doesn't seem like
there'll be much to worry about.
He's got a group.
If he doesn't do it, they will.
Any idea what "it" is?
No, I don't know,
but it's gotta be something big.
He and his followers
have been setting up a place,
a bunker, with enough food
to last for years.
You know,
you could join us.
After you find out
whatever you need to.
Me, Doug, Viv,
and the others,
we got it pretty good
where we're at.
Cole, I can't.
I've been looking for a way
to pay back the favor
for what Madison did
for me.
Maybe running into you --
maybe this is it.
Maybe I finally
found it.
[Metal clinking]
[Box rustles, thuds]
Is there a problem?
You remind of her.
Who?
[Inhales sharply]
Mother.
My mother.
Have you decided yet
what you're gonna do?
You gonna
join us underground?
No,
'cause you're wrong.
[Clattering]
Hands up.
♪♪
Cole?
Those unsavory types?
I'm one of 'em.
♪♪
You can
take them off now.
♪♪
Alicia: Viv?Sorry, Alicia.
Doug?
Are you kidding me?
No.
[Gun cocks]We're not.
♪♪
Teddy: After her mother
saved your lives?
Cole:
Yeah, well...
maybe she should've
let us die.
♪♪
Cole: Wasn't lying when I said
I got attacked.
We all did.
We're the only ones who didn't
get shotgun shells to the gut.
When?
About a week after the fire
at the stadium.
What happened?
We were looking for a place
to hole up,
to regroup so we could
come looking for you,
and Nick,
and Victor and Luciana.
Went into a motel
off 78,
and there were some people
in there waiting for us.
They killed most of us.
Who's left?
You're looking at us.
So, you've decided to do
the same thing
to whoever else
crosses your path?
Teddy: This is
what I've been trying
to get you to understand,
Alicia.
The patterns
of the universe.
It's because
of people like you, Cole,
[Chuckles] that the world
needs to be destroyed.
Hey.
We ain't proud
of living like this,
but it's all
we can do.
We had another way.
Cole: And you know
how that ended.
We tried to find you,
to do something more
than just look out
for ourselves.
Then, well, most of us
were gone.
So, we found this way,
and we're still standing.
You became the people
we were always fighting off.
There's always
bad people out there
waiting to make things
go south.
That is, south for you,
not for them.
You know how we can fix it,
Alicia?
Getting rid of them.
[Laughs]
[Guns cock]That seems
hard to do
when you're on this end
of my shotgun.
[Laughs]
Keep walking,
Gramps.
[Indistinct conversation]
Hey, Alicia.
I didn't come over here to rub
salt in your wounds, but, uh...
I know what you're thinking
right now.
Oh,
I highly doubt that.
Eh, you're thinking your --
your mother died for something,
and all the people
she saved
are somewhere out there
living meaningful lives.
But most of them
are dead,
and the ones that aren't
are living like bottom feeders.
This is what you want.
Well, I don't want
to see you in pain.
But you don't understand.
We're both after
the same thing,
for you to fulfill
your potential.
The more I learn about you,
the more confident I am
that you are the person
I've been looking for.
You're delusional.I...[Chuckles]
But -- But you don't know
what it is
I'm setting out
to do.
No,
I have no idea.
I've been trying to
figure that out for weeks...
and I have no clue.
No one does.
So, just tell me.
When you're ready.
Cole: Hey.
Now, what is it about
guns pointed at you
makes you think
you can take a break?
We gotta move.
Take the truck.
Take whatever you want in it.
We'll walk out of here
and never both you again.
Right?
Mm, I don't make promises
I can't keep.
Cole: No, we tried
playing nice once.
And the assholes
we robbed,
they came back
and nearly killed us.
But this place
you're headed --
man,
it sounds really nice.
So, you won't mind telling us
exactly where it is.
There's gotta be a map.
Oh, no, you're not gonna
find anything in there.
[Truck door opens]
It's in there,
huh?
'Cause I'd be more than happy
to open that up for you.
Cole --Why are you
protecting this asshole?
Where is this place
you're going?
Teddy.
It's okay, Sioux.
It's okay.
Doug: We've been here
way too long, Cole.
All this noise --
it'll bring more dead.
Forget him, Cole.
We've got a truck.
We've got gas.
We've got food.
That's more than we had
this morning.
Nah, this place he's hiding --
it's stocked with supplies.
He's got water,
he's got power.
We'll be safe there.
We could live there.
Where is it?
Go on.
Kill me.
Return me to the earth.
I will live on,
and, uh, someone else
will finish what I started.
I know how to get you
to talk.
Move.
Move!
I saw how upset you were
when her body went flying.
Teddy.
[Gunshot]
What the hell?!I'll blow
her damn head off!
Go on.What kind of a psycho
are you?
Eh, you're the one who's
shooting shotgun shells
into a corpse.
[Gunshot]
[Gun cocks]
[Shell clatters]
I'm sorry.
Oh, don't be.
That's not my mother.
Wait.
What did you say?
My mother's buried on the
family farm outside Grapevine.
♪♪
So, you lied to us?No.
I showed you
the truth.
But you were right,
Alicia.
I confess.
Our journey here
was not a coincidence.
I was, uh, hoping
to find, um, proof
that all the people that
your mother saved were dead,
but I didn't suspect that
I was gonna find a living one,
which, uh, proves my point
even more.
♪♪
Cole:
Fix the tires.
We'll take the truck.
♪♪
Hey.
I'm sorry, Alicia.
I really am.
I know
what your mother did for us.
So, I'm gonna do something
I normally wouldn't.
Come with us.
I can't.
I have -- I have to find out
what they're doing.
Why?
Because people will die
if I don't.
Who? Victor?
Then why isn't he out here
looking for you?
That truck, that gas,
we can
get the hell out of here.
[Truck door opens]
We drive smart, we can get
halfway across the county,
far away
from whatever he's doing.
And you know Victor
would be doing the same thing.
♪♪
I gotta warn you, Alicia,
you don't take me up on this,
we got no choice
but to kill you, too.
[Chuckles]
Well, I guess that makes
my decision a little easier.
♪♪
You can go to hell.
[Gun cocks]
On your knees.
Now.
♪♪
I'll make it fast.
[Birds chirping]
One more chance,
old man --
where are you going?
♪♪
Alright. Doug? Viv?
It's okay.
Everything I planned
will proceed
even without us
being present.
Are you really
going to do this?
I gave you your out,
Alicia.
We'll put you down.
Bury you.
Oh, thank you.
You two -- Well, you two
can be a warning to others.
♪♪
[Walkers growling]
Get it over with.
We're about to have visitors.
Viv? Doug?
Look at me.
We can work this out.
It doesn't
have to be like this.
Nah, we've heard that
too many times.
I'm sorry, Alicia.
I really am.
Oh, they don't know
what we know.
Hey, Cole.
Killing people you know can be
very difficult if you're weak.
Good thing
we don't know you.
[Gun cocks]
[Gunshot]
[Growling continues]Move.
♪♪
[Groaning]
[Screaming]
Viv. Viv.
♪♪
Teddy: You okay?
Yeah, you?
[Chuckles]
I'm gonna miss this.
[Growling continues]
♪♪
Don't.I'll shoot you,
Alicia.
Kill him!
Wait.
Shoot him.
Do it!
[Walker growling]
♪♪
She died
so you could have a chance.
Alicia, I know you don't want to
get rid of your mother, but --
Shut up!
I'm not talking to you!
♪♪
You were supposed to
make it mean something.
And you
threw it all away.
♪♪
Maybe it's time you listened
to your friend.
♪♪
Maybe it's time
you just let go --
[Gunshot]
♪♪
You know,
you're wrong.
You don't have to destroy
everything to make it better.
♪♪
Just people like him.
[Growling]
[Walker growling]
Dakota: See?
It's not as hard as you think.
For you.
No,
not just for me.
It's just how
the world is working now.
That-- That's what I tried
to explain to John.
I just -- I wish he'd seen it
the same way we do.
I told you
there is no "we".
I didn't want
to kill him.
I had to do it.
I want to believe
in something better.
Like your mom did?
[Sighs]
I never had that.
No one ever gave me anything
to believe in.
That's not true.
I tried.
And you threw it away,
just like they did.
[Footsteps approach]
Teddy: I'm so proud of you,
Alicia.
You let go of your past.
[Laughs]
You -- You --
You aren't afraid to change.
That doesn't mean I'm about
to fall in line behind you.
You're not afraid
to question me.
You really do
remind me of Mother.
Did she think
you were a nutjob, too?
When I was
at mortuary school,
when I was trying
to figure out
how I could
change things,
mother found my journals
and read them.
She saw the part where
I wrote about
why we needed
to end everything.
She thought
I was sick.
No, no.
"Disturbed" was the word
she used.
She threatened to call
the county social services
and have me committed.
"That'll put an end to
your sick thoughts," she said.
Yeah. [Chuckles]
"Give you a new beginning."
Oh, she never knew
how right she was.
I take it
you didn't listen to her.
I killed her.
Buried her
in the backyard.
I waited
all fall and winter,
worried that s-somebody
was gonna find her body.
And then,
when spring rolled around,
oh, the strangest
thing happened.
The most beautiful
morning glories
sprouted and bloomed
right over her body.
That's when I realized it wasn't
enough just to change things.
That was the first part.
What we needed
was a new beginning.
A world where people like Mother
could thrive,
free from the patterns
of our broken world.
♪♪
How do you plan
to destroy it all?
[Chuckles] Well...
you certainly have earned
the truth today.
That key
will launch a missile
from a beached submarine
washed ashore
in Galveston.
That should do the job,
don't you think?
♪♪
I think...
...that Cole isn't the only
person we need to get rid of
to make things better.
♪♪
[Gun cocks, shell clatters]
You're gonna have to
get rid of me, too.
♪♪
What happened
to making things right?
I've been waiting a long time
to get a fresh start.
Thought it was gonna be
with you and Morgan,
but looks like it's gonna
have to be with him.
What a surprise.I willshoot you!
No, no, it's okay,
Sioux.
I mean, she's not gonna stop
what we're doing,
and I want her alive.
♪♪
Morgan,
do you copy?
Is anyone there?
Does anyone hear me?
Hello?
Strand: Alicia?
Victor?
Yes, it's Victor.
Are you okay?
[Vehicle approaches]Can I trust you?
Of course.
What's wrong?
♪♪
You need
to get to Morgan.
Tell him I know what
the keys are, what they're for.
He needs to find a beached
submarine near Galveston.
Dakota: Don't worry.
It's just Victor.
He'll be getting himself as far
away from here as possible.
[Gun cocks]
No!She would've killed you.
I know.
That's what I was hoping
she would do
because it means you are the
right person for what's to come.
♪♪
[Chuckles softly]
[Brakes squeal]
♪♪
[Engine starts]
Back in the 1950s,
Uncle Sam built a bunker
beneath this resort
for, uh, government officials
to wait out the, uh,
inevitable destruction
that was coming.
It was long forgotten,
'til Riley
found mention of it
in a newspaper article
about the hotel's bankruptcy.
I...
Uncle Sam was smart
about whatwas coming,
just not about when.
[Chuckles]
What's it like,
Riley, hmm?
It's better than
The Holding ever was.
Oh, God. Well, I suppose
I should thank you
for burning
our other place down.
Do they know?
Your followers?
Oh, they just think
they're going to live
in a very well-stocked
new home.
[Chuckles]
Everybody inside?
We're ready.
You --
You wait here, Sioux.
I want -- I want to show this
to Alicia myself, okay?
It's alright.
There's nothing to worry about.
Oh, I wanted
to get to know you today,
and I'm glad I did
because now I know
you're the one
to finish what I started.
I'm not
finishing anything.
[Door opens]
The beginning
is the end.
I'm the ending,
so I can't be the beginning,
but you can.
What the hell
makes you think that?
Because you can do
what needs to be done
without losing sight
of the one thing
that's gonna be in short supply
once this is all over.
What's that?
♪♪
Hope.
[Door creaks]
I told them what you're dong,
and they're gonna stop you!
♪♪
I know this is hard to accept,
Alicia,
but this
is what's happening.
You are going to rebuild
the world from in there.
You and I
are very much alike.
I was
way ahead of my time
living in a world
I was ill-suited for.
But while I was inside,
the world changed
into a world that was
perfectly suited for me.
That's exactly
what's gonna happen...
with you inside.
♪♪
Good luck,
Alicia.
♪♪
You lock me in here,
I'm not gonna make the world
the way you want it to be!
♪♪
I know.
That's what
I'm counting on.
♪♪